What's up, my friend? This is Kaizen after Dark. I am your
host, Tony Kaizen, and I'm recording this after dark. And,
uh, I guess you should know I'm recording this in my car cos
I'm about to head home. And, um, I don't know, I just had
this on my mind. I was thinking about it recently and
figured it would be a good time to, uh, to say what's up to
you, leave you with something to think about cos we were on
Discord yesterday, I believe, last night. And one of the
topics that came up...actually, that's not a correct way of
saying it. There's a little bot on Discord that allows you
to generate random conversation topics. So I activated the
little robot and it suggested the topic.
Um...What's a memorable lesson that you had to learn the
hard way? And I just thought this was a really good
question. I'm sure most of us have...poof...a bunch of
lessons that we had to learn the hard way. I don't know what
it is about human beings. We just refuse to accept reality
sometimes, or we refuse to accept,
um, yeah...just reality. I can't even think of a better word
for it. And forgive me if you hear, like, cars driving by
and shit or, um, anything of that nature cos I'm just
chilling here in a parking lot. As strange as that might
sound to you, I don't think it's weird. You know? It's my
car. If I want to fucking record a podcast on my ride, I'll
record a podcast in my ride, goddammit. Anyway...Anyway,
that has nothing to do with the topic of discussion, my
friend. I apologize. Anyway, what is something memorable...a
memorable lesson that I had to learn the hard way? As I was
saying, I'm sure most of us have a bunch of those just
because sometimes we're just dumb, bro, like, we just refuse
to learn what the universe is telling us we need to learn.
And the first thing that came to mind was -- or the first
lesson that came to mind, I should say -- was, um, never
invest more than you're willing to lose. And this could be
with money or time or energy.
Anything. Anything that you can give to another person or
put into a project or relationship or a business or, you
know, financial investments, like, anything, it can be
anything. Never invest more than you are willing to lose.
Never give more than you'll be comfortable giving knowing
that you won't receive anything in return. First of all,
true giving does not involve expecting something in return,
that's not giving, but that's beside the point. What I'm
saying is a lot of times, especially when you've got good
intentions, you know, I guess a universal example might be
in a relationship. You might have good intentions with this
person. You might want to give them your all, invest 150% of
your love and your energy and your time and yourself into
the relationship and into this person just cos you love them
so much and you want to treat them right and you just want
to make them happy or...or you want them to be happy with
you. You can't make people happy, but you want them to be
happy with you and you want to be happy with them. Right?
And, you know, sometimes even if things start out well, even
if both of you have good intentions in the beginning,
sometimes shit just goes south, man. It happens all the time
in relationships. It doesn't matter if y'all are dating, if
you're already married, if you've got kids. I mean, shit
happens, bro. And there are so many reasons for that. But
the point is, you don't want to get to a point where you've
invested so much of yourself, your time, your energy, your
money, whatever it may be, into a person or a romantic,
like, or committed relationship. And then the relationship
ends. And all of that shit you put into it now is
meaningless. It's worthless. You can't get it back. And I
shouldn't say that, you know, just because you broke up with
this person, just because you got a divorce, everything is
wasted. That's not my point. What I'm trying to say is it's
very possible -- we have to accept -- it's very possible,
any and every relationship, could end at any time for any
reason. Right? So to me, it only makes sense to, yes, give
your all give as much as you possibly can in all of your
relationships. I believe you should love generously;
however, do it with the understanding that there could come
a time when this person I'm investing so much into or this
relationship or whatever that I'm investing so much into
could go to shit. That's a possibility. So it's probably
smart if I don't put in more than I'm willing to lose
knowing that I could lose this relationship. You see what
I'm saying? I don't know if that makes sense to you. In my
head, it makes sense because it's like...how can I say this?
It's almost like a form of self-protection or
self-preservation.
You know what I mean? Especially with relationships, bruh,
like you know...it's a...like a balance you got to find in
between giving everything you possibly can to somebody and
also looking out for yourself. And really that's one and the
same thing. That's what I mean by don't give more than what
you're willing to lose because giving everything you
possibly can doesn't mean giving everything. There's a
difference, right? Giving everything you can give - it's not
the same as giving everything you have. You see what I'm
saying? Like if...let's say, another example that I feel
might be universal is let's say you're walking down the
street in a busy city and there's a homeless person that ask
you for some money, "Hey, man, you got any spare change? You
got a couple of dollars? I'm just trying to get something to
eat," or whatever. I got $1,000 in my pocket.
I could give him $3, $5, $10, $20.
I could buy him dinner, I could probably buy him a
sweatshirt and all these things. I'm not going to give him
the whole thousand dollars unless I'm totally fine losing
$1,000. You see what I'm saying? I can give him what I can.
And maybe this isn't even the best example. This example is
kind of dumb, but hopefully you get my point. It's just
because I got a thousand doesn't mean I can give him a
thousand cos maybe I need 500 to pay my bills this month.
Maybe I need 200 to pay for groceries, maybe I need 50 for
gas. So how can I give him a thousand? Then I'm...Imma be
fucking homeless if I'm just giving everything I got away.
You feel me? So nothing wrong with giving. There's nothing
wrong with being generous, you should be. If you hope to
receive anything in life, you must learn to give first, in
my opinion. But you sh...I mean. I can't say you should not.
A lesson I learned the hard way is that I should not give
more than I'm willing to lose or give more than I'd be
comfortable giving, knowing that it will never be
reciprocated. You know? And it's the same thing with money
or anything else. Like if you're going to buy an NFT, if
you're going to fucking buy a rental property, if you're
going to invest in the stock market, whatever, it's cool to
take risks, man. I think the biggest and greatest winners in
life are the ones who are not afraid to take risks. I truly
believe that. However, however, it doesn't mean be stupid,
right?
There's a difference between taking a risk and being dumb.
And when you're taking risks, in this case financial risks,
by investing your money into something and hoping to get a
return at some point, you've got to go in with the mindset
that I could lose every single dollar that I'm about to
invest and I need to be okay with that. So whatever your
threshold is, whatever your tolerance for that financial
risk is, that's where you stop, you know? And that way, if
you do get a return, if you do win, excellent! But if you
lost it...or excuse me...if you lose it, then at least, you
know, like, well, "I knew that going in, I could have lost
this shit so there's no reason for me to get emotional about
it. I knew what it was from the beginning." That's what I
mean when I say don't invest more than you're willing to
lose, bruh, because any and everything can go to shit at any
time. And I don't mean to be pessimistic when I say that.
It's just real. That's real shit. I just try to be
realistic, you know what I mean? So I'm telling you this
because it's what I would say to myself if I could talk to
my 16, 18, 21-year-old self, like, man, it's okay to take
risks. It's okay to invest. It's okay to love hard. It's
okay to give as much as you possibly can in your career,
your relationships, your investments, your business, but
just always be conscious of how much you're giving and...and
what your limits actually are. What are you okay with
losing? What are you not okay with losing? You've got to
learn to draw the line at some point. You know what I mean?
And, um, yeah, I just think that's a super important lesson,
and I wanted to leave that on your brain this evening. So
um, if you're listening to this, you are a podcast
supporter, which means you got access to the Discord server.
So hit me up, man. Let's start a conversation about this.
Maybe you can let me know a hard lesson that you had to
learn, um, but that you'll always remember now that you've
learned it. You know what I mean? Uh, and let me know what
you think about my thoughts. Hopefully it was clear to you.
I'm kind of just freestyling here; I didn't write anything
down. But yeah, that's all I got for you right now, my
friend. This is Kaizen after Dark, I am your host, Tony
Kaizen, recording after dark and I'll talk to you soon.
Peace!